Let's now try putting our U-V tools to the test by trying to map this object a adore.
This is from the Blendr 401 creating a game environment course here on Blendr 101 dot com.
And the store as it was modeled is currently made up of four different objects.
We've got the main door panel two door knobs and the door plate here at the edge.
So let's work on U-V mapping this main door piece.
First I'm going to go over to my U-V editing screen that lay out and notice I already have a node editor
window pulled down here that's going to make my life a little easier as we apply our U-V test grid.
So with the door selected I'll go ahead and press shift h to isolate it to kind of hide all the other
objects and Alt-Tab into edit mode.
And let's take a look at this.
Now this is going to be one of those wood veneer wood panel kind of doors so I think what we can do
is just break each of the faces out into their own U-V Island.
So if I go to edge mode and I'll just select each of these edges all the way around like this and maybe
this as well.
I'll go ahead and mark these seams with control E and Mark seam.
Now I grab those edges here at the corners as well.
Go ahead and mark those and down here at the bottom.
Control easy mark seem so I've just gone through and marked every seam on the object.
I'll select everything with the Aiki press you and unwrap and here's what we get.
Now here in the panel in the tools panel if we press t we can see it here.
I have the option to use angle based or conformal for my U-V map.
And you'll notice here that there really isn't a difference between either one of them.
And that tells us that our scale is uniform.
If I hit the in key and come over here to our properties panel and tab into object mode you can see
that the scale here is all ones.
Currently the rotation has a 90 degree turn in the x axis.
But that's not really going to affect us too much.
I can go ahead and press control a and apply the rotation as well.
Now this is all zeros scale all ones we can try it again and see if that makes any difference at all.
And it makes a slight difference in the rotation and placement of the islands but ultimately their scale
hasn't changed any.
So as we did before let's go ahead and create a U-V test pattern to apply to this to see how we're doing.
I'll come down here and click new and I'll call this U.V. test and let's generate a U.V. grid pattern
click OK.
And there we go.
Now I need to apply a material to this object.
I click new and for this let's just call this material U-V test as well.
I'll go ahead and press shift a bring in an image texture right here.
And for this I'll just grab this pull down menu and select U-V test.
I'll connect the nodes and come down here and choose texture viewport shading.
Now we can see whether our U-V islands will stretch our texture or not.
And it's looking pretty good actually.
I think this is pretty usable.
I'll hit the A key and take a look at it over here.
Let's turn on that stretch coloration right here.
So we can see the islands a little better.
Now I know that I'm going to need a wood texture a wood texture grain to apply to this U-V map and to
make my life easier.
I should probably arrange these the islands in the same direction so that when I apply that wood texture
I can apply it in one direction and it'll work for all my U-V islands.
So if I come over here and choose U-V Island selection like that there and select one of these U-V islands
I can now rotate it by pressing r 9 0 and hit enter.
And now I can hit G and move it around in place next to the other U-V island.
I can also do the same for these I can click these and shift select that and move these over here as
well.
And for these I can select these empresse are 9 0.
Rotate those around and move these into place here.
There we go.
So now we have our U-V map of our door in place now to maximize our resolution in our U-V space here.
It's a good idea to select everything and scale them up so they fit as tightly as possible within this
zero to one space.
However I've still got more to do.
I've still got the door knobs and the door plate to do so I'll just undo this and wait to scale that
up.
Now I call this the zero to one space because just like on a graph here at this corner is zero zero
and up here is 1 1.
Over here is 0 1 and 1 0.
If we take a look at the cursor settings here I'm just going to scroll a couple of these up so we can
see the cursor settings.
Here it is.
You can see that the cursor here is at zero zero.
I'm going to turn on normalized so that our coordinates are from 0 to 1 here.
Turn that on.
Now if I change this y to one you can see that the cursor snaps appear to coordinate 0 1.
If I change the X to 1 the cursor snaps appear to 1 1 and if I change the Y to zero it snaps down here
to 1 0.
Now if I turn off normalized you can see that it gives the coordinates in the pixel resolution 10:24.
If I type in 10:24 here that will put the cursor up there but generally speaking this is called the
zero to one space because the coordinates go from zero to 1.
So when we're U-V mapping our objects it's a good idea to keep all of the U.V. islands inside this is
zero to one the space before we finalize the U.V. map.
Now you can of course grab one of these and move them outside that zero to one space.
And this is fine as you're creating and working with the U-V map.
However not all 3D applications are going to be able to see U-V islands outside of the zero to one space.
Some can some can't but to be safe it's a good idea to keep everything inside the zero to one space
in the next video will continue U.V. mapping our door working on the door knobs and the door plate.